# Experiencing Death

It is said that in death, all things become clear; Ensei Tankado now knew it was
true. As he clutched his chest and fell to the ground in pain, he realized the
horror of his mistake.

People appeared, hovering over him, trying to help. But Tankado did not want
help—it was too late for that.

Trembling, he raised his left hand and held his fingers outward. Look at my
hand! The faces around him stared, but he could tell they did not understand.   

On his finger was an engraved golden ring. For an instant, the markings
glimmered in the Andalusian sun. Ensei Tankado knew it was the last light he
would ever see.

Suddenly, without warning, the German’s body arched, stiffened, and almost
immediately collapsed on top of her. That's all? she thought, surprised and
relieved.

She tried to slide out from under him. "Darling," she whispered huskily. "Let me
get on top." But the man did not move.

She reached up and pushed at his massive shoulders. "Darling, I . . . I can't
breathe!" She began feeling faint. She felt her ribs cracking. "¡Despiértate!"
Her fingers instinctively started pulling at his matted hair. _Wake up!_

It was then that she felt the warm sticky liquid. It was matted in his
hair—flowing onto her cheeks, into her mouth. It was salty. She twisted wildly
beneath him. Above her, a strange shaft of light illuminated the German's
contorted face. The bullet hole in his temple was gushing blood all over her.
She tried to scream, but there was no air left in her lungs. He was crushing
her.  Delirious, she clawed toward the shaft of light coming from the doorway.
She saw a hand. A gun with a silencer. A flash of light. And then nothing.

As the chopper rose to four thousand feet, it banked steeply out over a series
of ice chasms and crevasses. Suddenly, the men stood. Without a word, they
gripped the heavily laden sled and pushed it out the open door. Brophy watched
in horror as his dogs scrambled in vain against the enormous weight. In an
instant the animals disappeared, dragged howling out of the chopper.

Brophy was already on his feet screaming when the men grabbed him. They hauled
him to the door. Numb with fear, Brophy swung his fists, trying to fend off the
powerful hands pushing him outward.

It was no use. Moments later he was tumbling toward the chasms below.

The fear came on in torrents now.

Drowning, Ming had once read, was the most horrific death imaginable. He had
never dreamed he would find himself on the verge of experiencing it. His muscles
refused to cooperate with his mind, and already he was fighting just to keep his
head above water. His soggy clothing pulled him downward as his numb fingers
scratched the sides of the pit.


His screams were only in his mind now.

And then it happened.

Ming went under. The sheer terror of being conscious of his own impending death
was something he never imagined he would experience. And yet here he was…sinking
slowly down the sheer ice wall of a two-hundred-foot-deep hole in the ice.
Multitudes of thoughts flashed before his eyes. Moments from his childhood. His
career. He wondered if anyone would find him down here. Or would he simply sink
to the bottom and freeze there…entombed in the glacier for all time.

Ming's lungs were screaming for oxygen. He held his breath, still trying to kick
toward the surface. Breathe! He fought the reflex, clamping his insensate lips
together. Breathe! He tried in vain to swim upward. Breathe! At that instant, in
a deadly battle of human reflex against reason, Ming’s breathing instinct
overcame his ability to keep his mouth closed.

Wailee Ming inhaled.

The water crashing into his lungs felt like scalding oil on his sensitive
pulmonary tissue. He felt like he was burning from the inside out. Cruelly,
water does not kill immediately. Ming spent seven horrifying seconds inhaling in
the icy water, each breath more painful than the last, each inhalation offering
none of what his body so desperately craved.

Finally, as Ming slid downward into the icy darkness, he felt himself going
unconscious. He welcomed the escape. All around him in the water Ming saw tiny
glowing specks of light. It was the most beautiful thing he had ever seen.

The sharks hit instantly. From her front-row seat, Rachel sat frozen in place as
the spectacle unfolded only a few feet away.

Delta-Two felt the shark’s oblong head crash into him with unimaginable force. A
razor sharp clamp tightened on his upper arm, slicing to the bone and locking
on. A flash of white-hot pain exploded as the shark torqued its powerful body
and shook its head violently, tearing Delta-Two’s arm off his body.

Others sharks moved in. Knives stabbing at his legs. Torso. Neck. Delta-Two had
no breath to scream in agony as the sharks ripped huge chunks of his body away.
The last thing he saw was a crescent-shaped mouth, tilting sideways, a gorge of
teeth clamping down across his face.

The world went black.

I'm dreaming, Pickering thought.

Suddenly, with an explosive hiss that shattered the windows of the Goya's
bridge, a towering plume of steam erupted skyward out of the vortex. A colossal
geyser climbed overhead, thundering, its apex disappearing into the darkened
sky. Instantly, the funnel walls steepened, the perimeter expanding faster now,
chewing across the ocean toward him. The stern of the Goya swung hard toward the
expanding cavity. Pickering lost his balance and fell to his knees. Like a child
before God, he gazed downward into the growing abyss.

His final thoughts were for his daughter, Diana. He prayed she had not known
fear like this when she died.

Physicist Leonardo Vetra smelled burning flesh, and he knew it was his own. He
stared up in terror at the dark figure looming over him. "What do you want!"

"_La chiave,_" the raspy voice replied. "The password."

"But... I don't-"

The intruder pressed down again, grinding the white hot object deeper into
Vetra's chest. There was the hiss of broiling flesh.

Vetra cried out in agony. "There is no password!" He felt himself drifting
toward unconsciousness.

The figure glared. "_Ne avevo paura._ I was afraid of that."

Vetra fought to keep his senses, but the darkness was closing in. His only
solace was in knowing his attacker would never obtain what he had come for. A
moment later, however, the figure produced a blade and brought it to Vetra’s
face. The blade hovered. Carefully. Surgically.

"For the love of God!" Vetra screamed. But it was too late.

Only a few feet away, Cardinal Baggia felt his soul straining to leave his body.
Although he had prepared for this moment his entire life, he had never imagined
the end would be like this. His physical shell was in agony... burned, bruised,
and held underwater by an immovable weight. He reminded himself that this
suffering was nothing compared to what Jesus had endured.

_He died for my sins..._

Baggia could hear the thrashing of a battle raging nearby. He could not bear the
thought of it. His captor was about to extinguish yet another life... the man
with kind eyes, the man who had tried to help.

As the pain mounted, Baggia lay on his back and stared up through the water at
the black sky above him. For a moment he thought he saw stars.

It was time.

Releasing all fear and doubt, Baggia opened his mouth and expelled what he knew
would be his final breath. He watched his spirit gurgle heavenward in a burst of
transparent bubbles. Then, reflexively, he gasped. The water poured in like icy
daggers to his sides. The pain lasted only a few seconds.

Then... peace.

